# Single Cell RNA Seq Data Analysis

## Introduction
Persister Cells are a cancer subpopulation ***responsible for recurrent cases of cancer*** within patients who are initially deemed cancer-free. They primarily operate in a dormant (low metabolism) phase, which enables them to escape treatments seeking to target common cell metabolism & growth processes. They live in a competitive tumor microenvironment which acts as a medium of balance between the persister cell population and the cancer stem-like cell population. This balance is shifted when there is a drastic decrease in either population which results in stimulation of the production of either cell population. Because persister cells appear to be activated during high cellular stress situations, I hoped to identify the key stress pathways that activate the persister cell subpopulation and subsequently maintain this cell subpopulation. Currently, the best treatment for breast cancer persister cells is inhibition of GPX4 gene, which induces an inability for the cells to handle oxidative stress. However, I believe if these stress pathways and core differential genes of these pathways are identified, inhibition of these factors can serve as another pathway to slow and prevent the growth of these persister cells.

To do so, I will analyze the single-cell RNA-seq data of 2 non-persister or parental replicates and 3 persister cell replicates. Since this dataset is available on NCBI as FASTQ files, I will need to extract the raw gene expression counts by creating Bash scripts definining data processing pipelines leveraging tools such as STAR ALIGNER and FeatureCounts. These Bash scripts enable me to submit my jobs to SLURM, which will allocate the required computational resources to execute my pipelines on the HPC (High Performance Computing) clusters. Lastly, I would like to thank Dr. Hannah Carter and her lab group who answered all of my questions, helped me debug issues, and made me a better researcher. 

## Data Processing Workflow: FASTQs to Raw Gene Expression Counts

